[[springandhadoop-testing]]
== Testing Support

Hadoop testing has always been a cumbersome process especially if you
try to do testing phase during the normal project build process.
Traditionally developers have had few options like running Hadoop
cluster either as a local or pseudo-distributed mode and then utilise
that to run MapReduce jobs. Hadoop project itself is using a lot of mini
clusters during the tests which provides better tools to run your code
in an isolated environment.

Spring Hadoop and especially its Yarn module faced similar testing
problems. Spring Hadoop provides testing facilities order to make
testing on Hadoop much easier especially if code relies on Spring Hadoop
itself. These testing facilities are also used internally to test Spring
Hadoop, although some test cases still rely on a running Hadoop instance
on a host where project build is executed.

Two central concepts of testing using Spring Hadoop is, firstly fire up
the mini cluster and secondly use the configuration prepared by the mini
cluster to talk to the Hadoop components. Now let's go through the
general testing facilities offered by Spring Hadoop.

Testing for MapReduce and Yarn in Spring Hadoop is separated into
different packages mostly because these two components doesn't have hard
dependencies with each others. You will see a lot of similarities when
creating tests for MapReduce and Yarn.

=== Testing MapReduce

==== Mini Clusters for MapReduce

Mini clusters usually contain testing components from a Hadoop project
itself. These are clusters for _MapReduce Job_ handling and _HDFS_ which
are all run within a same process. In Spring Hadoop mini clusters are
implementing interface HadoopCluster which provides methods for
lifecycle and configuration. _Spring Hadoop_ provides transitive maven
dependencies against different _Hadoop_ distributions and thus mini
clusters are started using different implementations. This is mostly
because we want to support _HadoopV1_ and _HadoopV2_ at a same time. All
this is handled automatically at runtime so everything should be
transparent to the end user.

[source,java]
----
public interface HadoopCluster {
  Configuration getConfiguration();
  void start() throws Exception;
  void stop();
  FileSystem getFileSystem() throws IOException;
}
----

Currently one implementation named _StandaloneHadoopCluster_ exists
which supports simple cluster type where a number of nodes can be
defined and then all the nodes will contain utilities for _MapReduce
Job_ handling and _HDFS_.

There are few ways how this cluster can be started depending on a use
case. It is possible to use StandaloneHadoopCluster directly or
configure and start it through HadoopClusterFactoryBean. Existing
HadoopClusterManager is used in unit tests to cache running clusters.

[NOTE]
====
It's advisable not to use HadoopClusterManager outside of tests because
literally it is using static fields to cache cluster references. This is
a same concept used in _Spring Test_ order to cache application contexts
between the unit tests within a jvm.
====

[source,xml]
----
<bean id="hadoopCluster" class="org.springframework.data.hadoop.test.support.HadoopClusterFactoryBean">
  <property name="clusterId" value="HadoopClusterTests"/>
  <property name="autoStart" value="true"/>
  <property name="nodes" value="1"/>
</bean>
----

Example above defines a bean named _hadoopCluster_ using a factory bean
HadoopClusterFactoryBean. It defines a simple one node cluster which is
started automatically.

==== Configuration

_Spring Hadoop_ components usually depend on _Hadoop_ configuration
which is then wired into these components during the application context
startup phase. This was explained in previous chapters so we don't go
through it again. However this is now a catch-22 because we need the
configuration for the context but it is not known until mini cluster has
done its startup magic and prepared the configuration with correct
values reflecting current runtime status of the cluster itself. Solution
for this is to use other bean named ConfigurationDelegatingFactoryBean
which will simply delegate the configuration request into the running
cluster.

[source,xml]
----
<bean id="hadoopConfiguredConfiguration" class="org.springframework.data.hadoop.test.support.ConfigurationDelegatingFactoryBean">
  <property name="cluster" ref="hadoopCluster"/>
</bean>

<hdp:configuration id="hadoopConfiguration" configuration-ref="hadoopConfiguredConfiguration"/>
----

In the above example we created a bean named
_hadoopConfiguredConfiguration_ using ConfigurationDelegatingFactoryBean
which simple delegates to _hadoopCluster_ bean. Returned bean
_hadoopConfiguredConfiguration_ is type of _Hadoop's_ Configuration
object so it could be used as it is.

Latter part of the example show how _Spring Hadoop_ namespace is used to
create another Configuration object which is using
_hadoopConfiguredConfiguration_ as a reference. This scenario would make
sense if there is a need to add additional configuration options into
running configuration used by other components. Usually it is suiteable
to use cluster prepared configuration as it is.

==== Simplified Testing

It is perfecly all right to create your tests from scratch and for
example create the cluster manually and then get the runtime
configuration from there. This just needs some boilerplate code in your
context configuration and unit test lifecycle.

_Spring Hadoop_ adds additional facilities for the testing to make all
this even easier.

[source,java]
----
@RunWith(SpringJUnit4ClassRunner.class)
public abstract class AbstractHadoopClusterTests implements ApplicationContextAware {
  ...
}

@ContextConfiguration(loader=HadoopDelegatingSmartContextLoader.class)
@MiniHadoopCluster
public class ClusterBaseTestClassTests extends AbstractHadoopClusterTests {
  ...
}
----

Above example shows the AbstractHadoopClusterTests and how
ClusterBaseTestClassTests is prepared to be aware of a mini cluster.
HadoopDelegatingSmartContextLoader offers same base functionality as the
default DelegatingSmartContextLoader in a spring-test package. One
additional thing what HadoopDelegatingSmartContextLoader does is to
automatically handle running clusters and inject Configuration into the
application context.

[source,java]
----
@MiniHadoopCluster(configName="hadoopConfiguration", clusterName="hadoopCluster", nodes=1, id="default")
----

Generally @MiniHadoopCluster annotation allows you to define injected
bean name for mini cluster, its Configurations and a number of nodes you
like to have in a cluster.

_Spring Hadoop_ testing is dependant of general facilities of _Spring
Test framework_ meaning that everything what is cached during the test
are reuseable withing other tests. One need to understand that if
_Hadoop_ mini cluster and its Configuration is injected into an
Application Context, caching happens on a mercy of a Spring Testing
meaning if a test Application Context is cached also mini cluster
instance is cached. While caching is always prefered, one needs to
understant that if tests are expecting vanilla environment to be
present, test context should be dirtied using @DirtiesContext
annotation.

==== Wordcount Example

Let's study a proper example of existing _MapReduce Job_ which is
executed and tested using _Spring Hadoop_. This example is the Hadoop's
classic wordcount. We don't go through all the details of this example
because we want to concentrate on testing specific code and
configuration.

[source,xml]
----
<context:property-placeholder location="hadoop.properties" />

<hdp:job id="wordcountJob"
  input-path="${wordcount.input.path}"
  output-path="${wordcount.output.path}"
  libs="file:build/libs/mapreduce-examples-wordcount-*.jar"
  mapper="org.springframework.data.hadoop.examples.TokenizerMapper"
  reducer="org.springframework.data.hadoop.examples.IntSumReducer" />

<hdp:script id="setupScript" location="copy-files.groovy">
  <hdp:property name="localSourceFile" value="data/nietzsche-chapter-1.txt" />
  <hdp:property name="inputDir" value="${wordcount.input.path}" />
  <hdp:property name="outputDir" value="${wordcount.output.path}" />
</hdp:script>

<hdp:job-runner id="runner"
  run-at-startup="false"
  kill-job-at-shutdown="false"
  wait-for-completion="false"
  pre-action="setupScript"
  job-ref="wordcountJob" />
----

In above configuration example we can see few differences with the
actual runtime configuration. Firstly you can see that we didn't specify
any kind of configuration for hadoop. This is because it's is injected
automatically by testing framework. Secondly because we want to
explicitely wait the job to be run and finished, _kill-job-at-shutdown_
and _wait-for-completion_ are set to _false_.

[source,java]
----
@ContextConfiguration(loader=HadoopDelegatingSmartContextLoader.class)
@MiniHadoopCluster
public class WordcountTests extends AbstractMapReduceTests {
  @Test
  public void testWordcountJob() throws Exception {
    // run blocks and throws exception if job failed
    JobRunner runner = getApplicationContext().getBean("runner", JobRunner.class);
    Job wordcountJob = getApplicationContext().getBean("wordcountJob", Job.class);

    runner.call();

    JobStatus finishedStatus = waitFinishedStatus(wordcountJob, 60, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
    assertThat(finishedStatus, notNullValue());

    // get output files from a job
    Path[] outputFiles = getOutputFilePaths("/user/gutenberg/output/word/");
    assertEquals(1, outputFiles.length);
    assertThat(getFileSystem().getFileStatus(outputFiles[0]).getLen(), greaterThan(0l));

    // read through the file and check that line with
    // "themselves  6" was found
    boolean found = false;
    InputStream in = getFileSystem().open(outputFiles[0]);
    BufferedReader reader = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(in));
    String line = null;
    while ((line = reader.readLine()) != null) {
      if (line.startsWith("themselves")) {
        assertThat(line, is("themselves\t6"));
        found = true;
      }
    }
    reader.close();
    assertThat("Keyword 'themselves' not found", found);
  }
}
----

In above unit test class we simply run the job defined in xml,
explicitely wait it to finish and then check the output content from
_HDFS_ by searching expected strings.

=== Testing Yarn

==== Mini Clusters for Yarn

Mini cluster usually contain testing components from a _Hadoop_ project
itself. These are MiniYARNCluster for Resource Manager and
MiniDFSCluster for Datanode and Namenode which are all run within a same
process. In _Spring Hadoop_ mini clusters are implementing interface
YarnCluster which provides methods for lifecycle and configuration.

[source,java]
----
public interface YarnCluster {
  Configuration getConfiguration();
  void start() throws Exception;
  void stop();
  File getYarnWorkDir();
}
----

Currently one implementation named StandaloneYarnCluster exists which
supports simple cluster type where a number of nodes can be defined and
then all the nodes will have _Yarn Node Manager_ and _Hdfs Datanode_,
additionally a _Yarn Resource Manager_ and _Hdfs Namenode_ components
are started.

There are few ways how this cluster can be started depending on a use
case. It is possible to use StandaloneYarnCluster directly or configure
and start it through YarnClusterFactoryBean. Existing YarnClusterManager
is used in unit tests to cache running clusters.

[NOTE]
====
It's advisable not to use YarnClusterManager outside of tests because
literally it is using static fields to cache cluster references. This is
a same concept used in _Spring Test_ order to cache application contexts
between the unit tests within a jvm.
====

[source,xml]
----
<bean id="yarnCluster" class="org.springframework.yarn.test.support.YarnClusterFactoryBean">
  <property name="clusterId" value="YarnClusterTests"/>
  <property name="autoStart" value="true"/>
  <property name="nodes" value="1"/>
</bean>
----

Example above defines a bean named _yarnCluster_ using a factory bean
YarnClusterFactoryBean. It defines a simple one node cluster which is
started automatically. Cluster working directories would then exist
under below paths:

[source,text]
----
target/YarnClusterTests/
target/YarnClusterTests-dfs/
----

[NOTE]
====
We rely on base classes from a _Hadoop_ distribution and target base
directory is hardcoded in Hadoop and is not configurable.
====

==== Configuration

_Spring Yarn_ components usually depend on _Hadoop_ configuration which
is then wired into these components during the application context
startup phase. This was explained in previous chapters so we don't go
through it again. However this is now a catch-22 because we need the
configuration for the context but it is not known until mini cluster has
done its startup magic and prepared the configuration with correct
values reflecting current runtime status of the cluster itself. Solution
for this is to use other factory bean class named
ConfigurationDelegatingFactoryBean which will simple delegate the
configuration request into the running cluster.

[source,xml]
----
<bean id="yarnConfiguredConfiguration" class="org.springframework.yarn.test.support.ConfigurationDelegatingFactoryBean">
  <property name="cluster" ref="yarnCluster"/>
</bean>

<yarn:configuration id="yarnConfiguration" configuration-ref="yarnConfiguredConfiguration"/>
----

In the above example we created a bean named
_yarnConfiguredConfiguration_ using ConfigurationDelegatingFactoryBean
which simple delegates to _yarnCluster_ bean. Returned bean
_yarnConfiguredConfiguration_ is type of _Hadoop's_ Configuration object
so it could be used as it is.

Latter part of the example show how _Spring Yarn_ namespace is used to
create another Configuration object which is using
_yarnConfiguredConfiguration_ as a reference. This scenario would make
sense if there is a need to add additional configuration options into
running configuration used by other components. Usually it is suiteable
to use cluster prepared configuration as it is.

==== Simplified Testing

It is perfecly all right to create your tests from scratch and for
example create the cluster manually and then get the runtime
configuration from there. This just needs some boilerplate code in your
context configuration and unit test lifecycle.

_Spring Hadoop_ adds additional facilities for the testing to make all
this even easier.

[source,java]
----
@RunWith(SpringJUnit4ClassRunner.class)
public abstract class AbstractYarnClusterTests implements ApplicationContextAware {
  ...
}

@ContextConfiguration(loader=YarnDelegatingSmartContextLoader.class)
@MiniYarnCluster
public class ClusterBaseTestClassTests extends AbstractYarnClusterTests {
  ...
}
----

Above example shows the AbstractYarnClusterTests and how
ClusterBaseTestClassTests is prepared to be aware of a mini cluster.
YarnDelegatingSmartContextLoader offers same base functionality as the
default DelegatingSmartContextLoader in a spring-test package. One
additional thing what YarnDelegatingSmartContextLoader does is to
automatically handle running clusters and inject Configuration into the
application context.

[source,java]
----
@MiniYarnCluster(configName="yarnConfiguration", clusterName="yarnCluster", nodes=1, id="default")
----

Generally @MiniYarnCluster annotation allows you to define injected bean
names for mini cluster, its Configurations and a number of nodes you
like to have in a cluster.

_Spring Hadoop Yarn_ testing is dependant of general facilities of
_Spring Test_ framework meaning that everything what is cached during
the test are reuseable withing other tests. One need to understand that
if _Hadoop_ mini cluster and its Configuration is injected into an
Application Context, caching happens on a mercy of a Spring Testing
meaning if a test Application Context is cached also mini cluster
instance is cached. While caching is always prefered, one needs to
understant that if tests are expecting vanilla environment to be
present, test context should be dirtied using @DirtiesContext
annotation.

_Spring Test Context_ configuration works exactly like you'd work with
any other _Spring Test_ based tests. It defaults on finding xml based
config and fall back to Annotation based config. For example if one is
working with _JavaConfig_ a simple static configuration class can be
used within the test class.

For test cases where additional context configuration is not needed a
simple helper annotation @MiniYarnClusterTest can be used.

[source,java]
----
@MiniYarnClusterTest
public class ActivatorTests extends AbstractBootYarnClusterTests {
  @Test
  public void testSomething(){
    ...
  }
}
----

In above example a simple test case was created using annontation
_@MiniYarnClusterTest_. Behind a scenes it's using junit and prepares a
YARN minicluster for you and injects needed configuration for you.

Drawback of using a composed annotation like this is that the
_@Configuration_ is then applied from an annotation class itself and
user can't no longer add a static _@Configuration_ class in a test class
itself and expect Spring to pick it up from there which is a normal
behaviour in Spring testing support. If user wants to use a simple
composed annotation and use a custom _@Configuration_, one can simply
duplicate functionality of this _@MiniYarnClusterTest_ annotation.

[source,java]
----
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
@Target(ElementType.TYPE)
@ContextConfiguration(loader=YarnDelegatingSmartContextLoader.class)
@MiniYarnCluster
public @interface CustomMiniYarnClusterTest {

  @Configuration
  public static class Config {
    @Bean
    public String myCustomBean() {
      return "myCustomBean";
    }
  }

}

@RunWith(SpringJUnit4ClassRunner.class)
@CustomMiniYarnClusterTest
public class ComposedAnnotationTests {

  @Autowired
  private ApplicationContext ctx;

  @Test
  public void testBean() {
    assertTrue(ctx.containsBean("myCustomBean"));
  }

}
----

In above example a custom composed annotation
_@CustomMiniYarnClusterTest_ was created and then used within a test
class. This a great way to put your configuration is one place and still
keep your test class relatively non-verbose.

==== Multi Context Example

Let's study a proper example of existing Spring Yarn application and how
this is tested during the build process. Multi Context Example is a
simple Spring Yarn based application which simply launches Application
Master and four Containers and withing those containers a custom code is
executed. In this case simply a log message is written.

In real life there are different ways to test whether Hadoop Yarn
application execution has been succesful or not. The obvious method
would be to check the application instance execution status reported by
Hadoop Yarn. Status of the execution doesn't always tell the whole truth
so i.e. if application is about to write something into HDFS as an
output that could be used to check the proper outcome of an execution.

This example doesn't write anything into HDFS and anyway it would be out
of scope of this document for obvious reason. It is fairly
straightforward to check file content from HDFS. One other interesting
method is simply to check to application log files that being the
Application Master and Container logs. Test methods can check exceptions
or expected log entries from a log files to determine whether test is
succesful or not.

In this chapter we don't go through how Multi Context Example is
configured and what it actually does, for that read the documentation
about the examples. However we go through what needs to be done order to
test this example application using testing support offered by Spring
Hadoop.

In this example we gave instructions to copy library dependencies into
Hdfs and then those entries were used within resouce localizer to tell
Yarn to copy those files into Container working directory. During the
unit testing when mini cluster is launched there are no files present in
Hdfs because cluster is initialized from scratch. Furtunalety Spring
Hadoop allows you to copy files into Hdfs during the localization
process from a local file system where Application Context is executed.
Only thing we need is the actual library files which can be assembled
during the build process. Spring Hadoop Examples build system rely on
Gradle so collecting dependencies is an easy task.

[source,xml]
----
<yarn:localresources>
  <yarn:hdfs path="/app/multi-context/*.jar"/>
  <yarn:hdfs path="/lib/*.jar"/>
</yarn:localresources>
----

Above configuration exists in application-context.xml and
appmaster-context.xml files. This is a normal application configuration
expecting static files already be present in Hdfs. This is usually done
to minimize latency during the application submission and execution.

[source,xml]
----
<yarn:localresources>
  <yarn:copy src="file:build/dependency-libs/*" dest="/lib/"/>
  <yarn:copy src="file:build/libs/*" dest="/app/multi-context/"/>
  <yarn:hdfs path="/app/multi-context/*.jar"/>
  <yarn:hdfs path="/lib/*.jar"/>
</yarn:localresources>
----

Above example is from MultiContextTest-context.xml which provides the
runtime context configuration talking with mini cluster during the test
phase.

When we do context configuration for YarnClient during the testing phase
all we need to do is to add copy elements which will transfer needed
libraries into Hdfs before the actual localization process will fire up.
When those files are copied into Hdfs running in a mini cluster we're
basically in a same point if using a real Hadoop cluster with existing
files.

[NOTE]
====
Running tests which depends on copying files into Hdfs it is mandatory
to use build system which is able to prepare these files for you. You
can't do this within IDE's which have its own ways to execute unit
tests.
====

The complete example of running the test, checking the application
execution status and finally checking the expected state of log files:

[source,java]
----
@ContextConfiguration(loader=YarnDelegatingSmartContextLoader.class)
@MiniYarnCluster
public class MultiContextTests extends AbstractYarnClusterTests {
  @Test
  @Timed(millis=70000)
  public void testAppSubmission() throws Exception {
    YarnApplicationState state = submitApplicationAndWait();
    assertNotNull(state);
    assertTrue(state.equals(YarnApplicationState.FINISHED));

    File workDir = getYarnCluster().getYarnWorkDir();

    PathMatchingResourcePatternResolver resolver = new PathMatchingResourcePatternResolver();
    String locationPattern = "file:" + workDir.getAbsolutePath() + "/**/*.std*";
    Resource[] resources = resolver.getResources(locationPattern);

    // appmaster and 4 containers should
    // make it 10 log files
    assertThat(resources, notNullValue());
    assertThat(resources.length, is(10));

    for (Resource res : resources) {
      File file = res.getFile();
      if (file.getName().endsWith("stdout")) {
        // there has to be some content in stdout file
        assertThat(file.length(), greaterThan(0l));
        if (file.getName().equals("Container.stdout")) {
          Scanner scanner = new Scanner(file);
          String content = scanner.useDelimiter("\\A").next();
          scanner.close();
          // this is what container will log in stdout
          assertThat(content, containsString("Hello from MultiContextBeanExample"));
        }
      } else if (file.getName().endsWith("stderr")) {
        // can't have anything in stderr files
        assertThat(file.length(), is(0l));
      }
    }
  }
}
----

=== Testing Boot Based Applications

In previous sections we showed a generic concepts of unit testing in
_Spring Hadoop_ and _Spring YARN_. We also have a first class support
for testing _Spring Boot_ based applications made for YARN.

[source,java]
----
@MiniYarnClusterTest
public class AppTests extends AbstractBootYarnClusterTests {

  @Test
  public void testApp() throws Exception {
    ApplicationInfo info = submitApplicationAndWait(ClientApplication.class, new String[0]);
    assertThat(info.getYarnApplicationState(), is(YarnApplicationState.FINISHED));

    List<Resource> resources = ContainerLogUtils.queryContainerLogs(
      getYarnCluster(), info.getApplicationId());
    assertThat(resources, notNullValue());
    assertThat(resources.size(), is(4));

    for (Resource res : resources) {
      File file = res.getFile();
      String content = ContainerLogUtils.getFileContent(file);
      if (file.getName().endsWith("stdout")) {
        assertThat(file.length(), greaterThan(0l));
        if (file.getName().equals("Container.stdout")) {
          assertThat(content, containsString("Hello from HelloPojo"));
        }
      } else if (file.getName().endsWith("stderr")) {
        assertThat("stderr with content: " + content, file.length(), is(0l));
      }
    }
  }

}
----

Let’s go through step by step what’s happening in this JUnit class. As
already mentioned earlier we don’t need any existing or running Hadoop
instances, instead testing framework from Spring YARN provides an easy
way to fire up a mini cluster where your tests can be run in an isolated
environment.

* @ContextConfiguration together with YarnDelegatingSmartContextLoader
tells Spring to prepare a testing context for a mini cluster.
EmptyConfig is a simple helper class to use if there are no additional
configuration for tests.
* @MiniYarnCluster tells Spring to start a Hadoop’s mini cluster having
components for _HDFS_ and _YARN_. Hadoop’s configuration from this
minicluster is automatically injected into your testing context.
* @MiniYarnClusterTest is basically a replacement of @MiniYarnCluster
and @ContextConfiguration having an empty context configuration.
* AbstractBootYarnClusterTests is a class containing a lot of base
functionality what you need in your tests.

Then it’s time to deploy the application into a running minicluster

* `submitApplicationAndWait()` method simply runs your ClientApplication
and expects it to an application deployment. On default it will wait 60
seconds an application to finish and returns an current state.
* We make sure that we have a correct application state

We use ContainerLogUtils to find our container logs files from a
minicluster.

* We assert count of a log files
* We expect some specified content from log file
* We expect stderr files to be empty

